An intro-level example of spout 2.0 (#5556)
pachyderm/pachyderm: examples/spouts/spout101/README.md

# Spout Pipelines 
>![pach_logo](./img/pach_logo.svg) This new implementation of the spout functionality is available in version **1.12 and higher**.

## Intro
A spout is a type of pipeline that ingests 
streaming data (message queue, database transactions logs,
event notifications... ). 
See spout pipelines as a bridge
between an external stream of data and Pachyderm's repo.

> In Martin Fowler's enterprise integration patterns' terms,

Reviewer: I think technically it is polling but should probably be described as "subscribes to a stream of data", which then makes it "pull"-like.

> In Martin Fowler's enterprise integration patterns' terms,

Author: It is a matter of perspective.
Data lineage's perspective: A spout is a source of data pushed into Pachyderm's repo and the starting point of the data lineage. It is, in this view, an entry point.
Integration perspective:  A spout is a by-the-book use case of a **Polling Consumer** as defined in the Enterprise Integration Pattern. It is a consumer of external data polled from a third-party messaging system. 
As suggested by Jan, I am replacing the term "polling" with the notion of subscription.

a Pachyderm spout is a 
*[Polling Consumer](https://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/patterns/messaging/PollingConsumer.html)* 
(actively polls for a message, processes it, then polls for another).

> Generally, you use spouts for situations 
> when the interval between new data generation
> is large or sporadic, but the latency requirement
> to start the processing is short. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Generally, spout pipelines are ideal for situations 
when the frequency of new incoming data 
is sporadic and the latency requirement
to start the processing is short. 
```

Reviewer 2: I don't think of spouts as particularly suited or not for large time intervals between data inputs. They are totally fine for this, but it's actually just as common (or sometimes moreso) use spouts for streaming data that might be coming in at a very high frequency. 

Do you think it's worth making a not here (or somewhere, I haven't finished reading the whole docs yet) that users should be careful not to use spouts to make "too many" commits too frequently. While small, there is an overhead per commit and per job (sophisticated versioning and lineage tracking aren't free unfortunately) and therefore we generally recommend making commits no more frequently that a few per minute. Pachyderm in general can handle micro batches much better that full streaming.

> Therefore, a regular pipeline with a cron input
> that polls for new data might not be an optimal solution.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In these workloads, a regular pipeline with a cron input
that polls for new data at a consistent time interval might not be an optimal solution.
```

A spout pipeline has three major differences from regular pipelines:

> - it runs continuously

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- it runs continuously, waiting for new events from any subscribed queues
```

- it does not take an input repo. Instead, it consumes messages from a third-party messaging system.
- `pfs/out` is not directly accessible. You will need to use `pachctl put file` to write into your output repo. In this example, we have used the `pachyderm-python` library. 

You configure a spout in the 
[pipeline specification](https://docs.pachyderm.com/latest/reference/pipeline_spec/)
file by adding a `spout` section after its pipeline section.
At a minimum, a spout pipeline will need a pipeline name,
an empty spout section, and a transform section
where you will specify the transformation you want
to execute on the messages consumed.

> >![pach_logo](./img/pach_logo.svg) Note that the use

Reviewer 2: do we have some methodology to track notices like this such that when build + spouts work we remember to remove this?

Author: I have created a feature request for this: **Build pipelines support for spouts** #5560, the merge of which will alert me.

- [Spout](https://docs.pachyderm.com/latest/reference/pipeline_spec/#spout-optional) configuration 

***Prerequisite***
- A workspace on [Pachyderm Hub](https://docs.pachyderm.com/latest/pachhub/pachhub_getting_started/) (recommended) or Pachyderm running [locally](https://docs.pachyderm.com/latest/getting_started/local_installation/).
- [pachctl command-line ](https://docs.pachyderm.com/latest/getting_started/local_installation/#install-pachctl) installed, and your context created (i.e., you are logged in)

***Getting started***
- Clone this repo.
- Make sure Pachyderm is running. You should be able to connect to your Pachyderm cluster via the `pachctl` CLI. 
Run a quick:
```shell
$ pachctl version

COMPONENT           VERSION
pachctl             1.12.0
pachd               1.12.0
```
Ideally, have your pachctl and pachd versions match. At a minimum, you should always use the same major & minor versions of your pachctl and pachd. 

## Example - Spout 101 
***Goal***
In this example,
we will keep generating two random strings, 
one of 1KB and one of 2KB,
at intervals varying between 10s and 30s. 

> A spout pipeline will actively poll those data,

Reviewer 2: per other comment, I don't quite see this is polling. What do you think? Perhaps, "Our spout pipeline will actively receive those events and commit them as text files to the output repo" -- or something like that.

then commit them to its output repo -

> in the form of a text file - using the **pachctl put file** command. 

Reviewer 2: One thing to be a little careful of in terminology. `put file` is the API command. pachctl is technically the name of the CLI for the Pachdyerm API. So it doesn't 100% makes sense to say "use pachctl put file with the python client"... it probably more accurate to say "use the `put file` API call via the python client." I think JD or someone on the eng side could probably tell you what sounds best -- I'm not the best judge because I'm not a real developer.

Reviewer 2: This comment applies to line 91 too
